# SolarPowerCalculator
A C# program that predicts the power production for your system in a year.

This program can calculate the power production of your system for a year. It will show you a graph that represents the months with power production that your system will probably produce. Why probably? Nature does was nature does. Sometimes the sun shines more or less. But this gives an indication how much power can be produced. What do I need to make this calculation? You need to know how maximum power production of your system. So if you have 20 solar panels of 410Wp (watt peak). You have a system of 20 * 410Wp = 8200 Wp. start the program and change the number to your system power (Wp). The power production can be determined from this number. here in the Netherlands we have an anual power production of 0,85 times the Wp.  So a 8200Wp system over here can produce. 8200 * 0,85 = 6970kWh anually. How do you know what the power production is each month. That's actually simple. if you have a graph of your system of a full year, you can see the power that was generated each month. We have to determine the production percentage each month. How do we do that? That's simple. Add all power of a full year. The production factor of January is PJanuary/PYear. You do this for each month. So all numbers added of the monthly production number will be 1 (100%). Each system has it's own particular power production characteristics, so I will make it powssible for you to have an external file with 12 lines of the power production each month. This way the program will calculate the power production factor for each month and this wil be more representive of your system. So you start the program and change the Wp to match with the power of your system. Don't change the efficiency yet. Just do a calculation. You will see that the numbers don't coorelate with last month production. Double click on that month and a pop-up will appear. Change it to the right value (kWh) and press Ok. you will notice that the efficiency has changed to match the power production of the month you have changed. 
